this is the iPhone 16 Pro Max this is
the Samsung Galaxy s24 Ultra when we
compared the Samsung to last year's
iPhone Samsung 1 with 6.5 points to 4.5
and so the question is can this new
iPhone with its capture button faster
and higher quality shooting improved
Ultra wide camera and close-ups better
microphones and a lot more software
features reemerge as the king of
smartphone photography or has Samsung
with all of the updates since launch
actually pulled even further ahead of
the iPhone oh yeah and the phone that
wins this test is the phone permanently
switched to oh my
God that's going to be me so let's start
with sound quality you're listening to
the Samsungs right now and it sounds
good iPhones and Samsungs have been
pretty neck and neck when it comes to
this for years now but this year that
changes cuz now you're listening to the
iPhones Apple has upgraded to four
microphones instead of Samsung 3 they're
apparently higher grade studio
microphones whatever that means but also
Apple has paid particular attention to
wind noise reduction and you can tell I
mean this is is the best sounding audio
that I have ever heard on any phone with
the additional option now of selecting
whose audio the phone focuses on since
the thing now records 360° Sound by
default so last time sound was a draw
this time I feel very confident handing
the win to the iPhone 16 Pro Max and
while we're at it how's the video
quality well the iPhone 15 Pro Max was
already ahead of Samsung when it comes
to video so now that that's been updated
to the 16 Pro Max it pretty much smokes
the Samsung on all fronts so so that's
in terms of the ultra wide camera can
you see how the iPhone is both wider so
it gets more in the shot while also
having the same amount of detail when
you get up close even though you have to
punch in more to get to it it's in terms
of dynamic range the ability of your
phone to evenly expose your shot so you
don't have something that's too bright
or too dark but look at the trees in the
background here can you see that Samsung
has kind of lost the information in them
now let's be very clear the iPhone isn't
always better we did find in a few
scenes that the iPhone was trying to
make things too balanced but to do that
it had to make the dark areas
unnaturally bright but it's better on
average apple is also better when it
comes to noise if you look at the brick
work over here you can see that you
don't even need to go to a night scene
for Samsung to start looking a little
grainy and soft and I actually could not
believe the difference between the two
phones here I think it's massive but the
biggest thing for me is just detail like
if you wanted to get in closer to see me
having the time of my life on perhaps
the most thrilling ride in existence
it's not going to look very good on the
Samsung both phones do also have an
action mode for when things get really
out of hand and they both make big
strides in terms of smoothing out all of
the absolutely insane acrobatics I was
being subjected to on this roller
coaster but the iPhones is slightly
higher resolution and a little bit
cleaner the only exception that I could
find to this rule is 8k the Galaxy s24
Ultra shoots 8K video and when you get
the right conditions it's actually
really good and it definitely trumps the
iPhone it's just you have to get it
right you have to work around Samsung's
other video shortcomings to properly
take advantage of it to the point where
I think most people will prefer how the
iPhone's 4K footage looks to Samsung's
8K but things are changing when it comes
to special modes and this is basically
extras that your phone does that are fun
but they're not part of the core camera
experience so that's slow motion that's
close-up macro mode that's any kind of
cinematic video mode and last time I did
this test I gave the point to Samsung
because of its ability to shoot slow
motion in 4k which was significantly
better than Apple's 1080p but now the
iPhone do 4K too and actually Apple's
slow-mo is like when you're taking
normal videos just less noisy than
Samsung's it actually feels 100% on par
with the quality that you get on your
normal iPhone video mode and the iPhone
has also had an upgrade to macro since
the ultra wide camera on the phone has
gone from 12 mapel to now 48 and macro
uses this Ultra wide camera so now the
iPhone does take noticeably more
detailed close-ups in Samsung apologies
for the slightly strange example but um
you'd be surprised how Unpretty things
look when you 2 cm away from them and
then your portrait cinematic video is
well I find pretty comparable between
the two but the improvements to the
iPhone and the other things are enough
for this special modes category to swing
completely from a Samsung win to an
iPhone win one thing that only the
iPhone does is space your video to watch
back on your Apple Vision Pro but I feel
like it's a little early in the day for
mixed reality headsets for that to be
any kind of substantial perk besides I
feel like if you have a Vision Pro
you're definitely an iPhone user anyway
what about selfies well there's a couple
of things to bear in mind first of all
that both phones can either shoot narrow
selfies for just you or wider to capture
a full scene and when you choose to go
wide on the iPhone it is wider I
wouldn't say there's a tangible
difference in detail between the two but
I do find it so interesting how both of
these phones have such a different style
and interpretation of exactly the same
scene and yet they both also kind of
seem right when you take them so really
this one's up to you but I do personally
prefer the Samsung I just think there's
something about the warmth of the skin
tones the vibrancy of the scenery oh and
also Samsung does a cracking job at
portraits so portrait selfies look
better the iPhone does now have some new
photographic styles that let you tweak
the skin tone in your shots to exactly
your preference and I will say the way
that Apple sold this the idea of you
deciding how you want to look in your
photos and then setting that style as
your default and then always looking
right from that point onwards is
actually very enticing but it's just
that in practice your skin tone is going
going to look different in every photo
anyway because of all the other factors
and so if you really wanted to get this
skin tone thing right you'd probably
have to go through like every single
photo ever taken of you and tweak each
one individually which doesn't feel like
a sensible use of time now the video
from these front cameras is every bit as
important anytime you want to record a
little holiday Vlog anytime you want to
make a Tik Tok anytime you video call
someone these are the cameras that
you're banking on and while I'm happy
that what the while I'm happy that
Samsung is paying attention to the
hardware in their front camera they are
definitely being let down with the
software processing so have a look at
this clip do you not think that Samsung
looks more cinematic like I'm being
filmed with a proper rear camera as
opposed to a tiny little selfie camera
it feels more professional compared to
the iPhone's more basic setup but there
are caveats the iPhone camera makes me
look better for starters pretty
consistently Samsung's got a real gritty
vibe to it you know kind of like I'm
filming the next Batman movie the iPhone
front camera is less grainy too you
notice Samsung really struggling when
you're not in ideal lighting and it's
it's such a shame because you know that
they've actually put a better camera on
the front of their phone but the biggest
difference have a look at this I created
a burner Instagram account with zero
followers to see how well each camera
takes footage directly within other apps
and as you can see here Apple has done a
really good job optimizing the Instagram
camera to retain most of the video and
audio processing that happens in its
normal camera app but even when you're
going straight onto Instagram Samsung
not so much and I feel like at this
point it's less of a Samsung issue it's
more of an Android issue there's just
there's too many devices on Android for
Instagram to optimize for every single
one both phones also shoot cinematic
video on their front camera which is
good I think it adds a lot of much
needed depth to what could otherwise be
quite a flat camera I think Apple shoots
in higher quality but Samsung just gets
portrait mode I really like the style of
it but overall we have to give selfie
video to the iPhone but one part of the
camera experience that I feel like gets
very overlooked is the camera app itself
a good camera app is going to give you a
ton of options it's going to make
shooting fun and most importantly it's
going to allow you to take what you want
to take quickly and on that note the
difference in shooting speed is now back
to being large again Apple used to be
far ahead and Samsung closed the Gap and
now apple is far ahead again
particularly when you're shooting using
both phones high resolution modes so
this is Apple's 48 megap versus
Samsung's 50 megapix mode and it's not
just that it feels fast it has a
tangible impact on your photos like look
here it's not just that the iPhone
managed to stop the water earlier in its
tracks but it has actually stopped the
water you can see the texture inside of
this stream which I think is absolutely
insane and while you're probably not
taking a lot of photos of frog fountains
the same differences will also apply to
photos of family where someone's
constantly laughing or friends that
don't listen to instructions and kids
that don't sit still I would also say
that the iPhone's app is a little
prettier and a little more intuitive to
use with one hand like pretty much
everything you might need to use is
always a swipe away as well as still
being a little smoother and faster than
Samsung's but then Samsung's got some
stuff going for it too you get more
settings more control over exactly what
you want your camera experience to be
but the big thing is really you'll
probably have noticed this throughout
the entire video that Samsung's display
is super bright and the reduced glare
that it screen picks up actually makes
the photo taking experience tangibly
better so I'm going to go for a draw on
this one and yes you can control the
entire Samsung camera app using just the
S Pen and some air gestures which is
wildly cool by the way but you just I
mean you'll probably use it like once in
your life and then yes there is also the
new camera control on the iPhone
which same if you want to hear my rant
on this button or not button whatever
you call it that's in my unboxing video
but for the purposes of now I'm going to
say that it adds nothing of note to the
iPhone's camera experience and on the
subject of the camera experience let's
talk editing you might have seen that
Samsung has full generative edit
capability ities so you can pick up
objects you can move those objects you
can resize them and the phone will fill
in the blanks automatically Samsung has
sketch to image you make a little Doodle
and then the phone turns that doodle
into a real object in your image which
is often fiddly and a little
disappointing but every now and again
jaw-droppingly impressive an Apple has
basically nothing this is where you feel
the consequence of Apple being late to
the AI party as of right now the only AI
editing feature currently announced is
cleanup which is not bad but it's coming
later in a software up date and based on
the beta it doesn't feel as
sophisticated yet as what other phones
are doing and this is where I would say
Samsung picks up a bit of steam cuz I
would say they also win when it comes to
zoom too I remember when the s24 ultra
first came out not being particularly
impressed by Zoom but it seems like
updates since that launch have brought
it back up to scratch both phones have a
five times optical zoom lens but
Samsung's five times is higher
resolution and it also feels like
Samsung knows what to do with it better
it feel feels like they're not afraid to
really dial up the software processing
on images when you zoom in a lot which
not everyone's going to love but I think
it's what these images need we even
tried a concert environment and can you
see how when you get super up close that
there's not actually much more
information being captured on the
Samsung it's just correcting the image
way more aggressively and confidently
and it makes it better not to mention
that Samsung also has a second zoom
camera at three times which just helps
to keep Zoom shots high quality
throughout the entire Zoom range and
also as I've alluded to earlier in this
video Samsung just gets portrait mode
Apple was the first company to do any
kind of portrait mode well but you can
just tell that in the meantime Samsung
has really invested energy into making
sure that their portrait mode becomes
something special it's got that magic
combination of realistic background blur
that doesn't feel like too much and
gently gets more blurred as objects get
further away with extremely good
reliable Edge detection and colors that
the key caveat is that these portraits
were taken on the five time zoom cameras
which favors Samsung because they've got
a better one when you take portraits
using the one times main camera then
Apple does gain a big leg up cuz it can
shoot 24 megap portraits instead of
Samsung's 12 but I do think that
portraits in general do look better when
you're more zoomed in so this one's for
Samsung now just before we get to the
crowning of what is going to be my new
phone we need to talk about core photo
quality and Nightmare mode so the main
change to photo quality with the iPhone
16 Pro is the new 48 map Ultra wide
camera and it was definitely the thing
to change since this is the one area
that I felt it was weaker than the
Samsung in but on first glance there's
not really a massive difference between
the two unless unless you specifically
use Apple's high res 48 megapixel modes
but if you do use that then yeah Samsung
just can't keep up because its Ultra
wide is only 12 at maximum Now using the
high-res photo mode with which Apple
calls Heath Max is not without
compromise it means that photos take a
bit longer to capture it means you don't
get live photos anymore and high
resolution photos also take up more
space but here's what I think Apple's
done really well I think the photos
still capture fast enough and Apple's
heat file format is actually so
efficient that a 48 megapixel shot on
this takes up like half the storage of a
12 megapixel shot on this so they've
made it convenient enough that I will
actually just keep Heath Max on by
default and so the iPhone does become
the much better Ultra wide camera for me
and that's mostly true for the main
camera too technically Samsung destroys
Apple in terms of resolution Samsung's
main cam is 200 megap Apple's is 48 but
then when you really boil it down the
best photo quality that Samsung can take
without some sort of major compromise in
terms of processing quality or capture
time is 12 whereas Apple's default is 24
you can take every normal photo on the
iPhone in 24 megapixel without needing
to change any settings or think about it
or sacrifice anything and that I think
is a massive perk and yes you can if you
want to take a 200 megapixel photo on
the Samsung but it's kind of like the
whole 8K video thing there are
situations in which it will be amazing
but only in absolutely ideal conditions
more often than not I found that the
iPhone's lower resolution shot will
still look better so I'm giving the
category of photos to the iPhone it's
not a blanket win there are absolutely
times when I think Samsung has made
someone's face look better or has a
nicer pop of color but if we're going on
averages then 70 to 80% of the shots the
iPhone takes I think are better now
based on what you've seen so far you've
probably guessed what happens when
things get super dark like yeah
Samsung's video becomes noisy that same
thing that you noticed a little bit
during the day gets exacerbated when the
lighting becomes challenging like look
how much grain there is in the smoke
coming out of this fire Samsung also
gets a little funky when it comes to
color control like all of a sudden why
does my sky look so deep blue that it's
it's like I'm sitting in front of a blue
screen or like when we tried walking to
an area with lots of bright lights that
weren't white lights Samsung makes those
colors so intense that you are actually
losing detail on what those lights are
shining onto but the night photos are
quite comparable this one was actually
kind of shocking for me because this
scene was so dark I could barely see
where I was going and both phones
rescued it the only key consistent
difference that I noticed between these
two phones is when things get dark Apple
lets your images get a bit grainy
Samsung will smooth your image to get
rid of grain and then add sharpening
back into the photo to correct for that
smoothness actually this Zoom shot is
like the perfect example of my point can
you see how as we zoom into this tent to
capture I'm left with two very different
looking images in which neither feels
wrong or better than the other it feels
like the amount of detail being captured
is pretty equivalent but the difference
in video is enough to swing this night
category into Apple's C so that means we
have a complete score flip in the last
test it was 6.5 to Samsung and 4.5 to
the iPhone this time it's 6.5 iPhone 4.5
Samsung the new iPhone isn't the most
exciting iPhone upgrade but the camera
improvements they've made are important
ones so this is now the phone that I'm
going to switch to and you want to know
why I've been completely comfortable
propping my phone up in all sorts of
weird places to take the shots for this
video it's because of this the tauras
oand 360° spin Cas our sponsor so this
case is not just a case it's a case mag
safe it's a kickstand and it's a grip
it's all of these things in one and it
actually does them all better than these
separate individual gadgets with the
case having raised edges to protect
every part of the phone the grip being
permanently locked into the phone and
the stand working perfectly for both
vertical and horizontal use but then
they have the glasso X screen protector
which applies perfectly almost every
single time thanks to a mechanism that
pulls out air from the center shortening
the distance that air needs to escape
escape from and it also perfectly
highlights the new thinner screen
borders on the iPhone while being
compatible with most cases and resistant
to both scratches and 12T drops oh yeah
and I've managed to get I say full 20%
off everything in the Tes store so link
below to check it out